It's an incredible product, creates
problems and solves the problems you
created and you pay both times. There's
this bizarre situation right now is like
if the AI would never have happened like
the the overall risk to the industry
would actually be lower, right? But Ruby
Ruby actually is in many ways the worst
language you can pick for AI.
>> We are basically witnessing the
elimination of programming languages
that serve humans best. Any thoughts on
this?
>> [laughter]
>> Yeah.
>> Hey, welcome back to State of Agentic
Coding number seven. My name is Ben
Vinegar. Um, and I'm here with
Armaroner. It's still summer. We're not
outside. We're not outside touching
grass. We're here
using agents to write code and then
recording a podcast about using agents
to write code. Armen,
who are you again? What do you do? My
name is Armen
and I'm still resident VIP quarter at
Arendelle.
Um where we are building interesting
things with AI right now
um a personal agent and a coding agent.
One is called Leos, one is called Pi. I
feel like as people are watching this
podcast, they're slowly seeing that
Arendel turns from what are they doing
to actually stuff being there.
>> It's all going to make sense. Oh, this
will be like a fun documentary. It'll
all make sense in the end. My name is
Ben Vigger. I have worked in software
for over 20 years, which makes me upset
every time I say that, by the way. Um,
it's too long. And I work at a company
called Modem. We're building like an AI
product teamm8 to help you with all the
non-coding tasks associated with
shipping software.
um things like curating user feedback,
managing your tickets,
um writing release notes, and following
up with users. If you're interested in
that, check it out. modem.dev.
Okay, this is the seventh episode. Lucky
number seven.
We never thought we'd get this far.
Right before we started, you made the
comment that it's probably been like a
year of you coding with agents.
>> So, it's not exactly a a year since I'm
doing agents. It's definitely more than
a year, but it's a year since I publicly
wrote about
how
I really think there's no going back.
Like I in beginning of June last year, I
wrote a blog post called AI changes
everything. Um where I basically I think
for the first time sort of revealed that
I'm basically mostly only doing
Claude at that point. So it was CL code
a year ago. Um, and it took me a while
to write that because it I think my
memory is hazy, but I feel like I
remember it was still
not very common to publicly admit that
you're mostly writing with agents. The
hindsight on this is really incredible
because if you go back one year in time,
um, like Copilot
might have still had more users than
cursor
or maybe that shift was just changing,
right? Cloud code definitely did not
have very many users. It probably had
under 0.1%.
>> It wasn't anywhere close to what it is
today. Um
>> Oh, like in the way that you're working
or I'm working.
>> Yeah. Yeah. Like even the Ralph Lu was
around a year ago.
>> I I think the original Ralph blog post
was from around June.
>> Yeah. That's also interesting because
like the blog post can come out but also
when the community like really grabs
hold of it
>> like it it got hold in November I think
or something.
>> Yeah. Yeah. It can it can happen later.
I have more things going in parallel
than I did back then. Maybe at the time
I experimented with getting you know a
couple things going. Um you know new
products came out that promoted
multiple parallel agent usage. like I
think August or September I started
using conductor for example and
conductor is like a harness for like
firing up multiple clouds and today
it'll fire up multiple codec cls right
that emerged
August September I think and you know
that started planting the idea of um how
I could do more in parallel so I do I
think that I was still very um
single track and I don't think that I
was vibing quite so much I think I was
still you know I was using the coding
agent probably handing over a lot more
than I was in the past but also because
of the quality of the models I felt like
there was a lot more supervision
happening
>> I mean they definitely got better right
it's like I even if I just go by my
GitHub contribution graph and I think
like in July we started writing the
first code for um Leos um
and I I still didn't feel like I can
actually build a business on top of
coding agents so it's like
they definitely It was a step change in
the quality of code being produced,
>> but and I think there's definitely more
parallelism going on,
but at the same time, I'm still more or
less in the terminal. I'm still more or
less talking to the machine. Like,
>> you're not using a Minority Report UI
where you're, you know, uh, moving
things around with your hands. I mean I
know that some people are like having
like these machines with like 32
parallel cloths or or cordexes going on
like that for sure exists but I have not
transitioned in in that sense because I
still struggle with the quality of the
things like here let's call it the
oneyear anniversary for us and on this
day or in the last week [snorts] you
know some of the architects of the way
that we build this software like Boris
Churnney at Anthropic and then you've
got Peter Steinberger, your friend,
building OpenClaw and both of these guys
have made comments which is like your
job is not to prompt anymore. Your job
is to architect a system that basically
runs loops and to just let things loop.
First off, what I'm hearing from you is
I don't think you were doing that a year
ago. And since you described your work
as being sort of kind of similar
uh or sorry the way that you do your
work as being kind of similar I assume
that you are not doing that today.
>> Not really. No. Well, I mean I think
there's sort of two worlds emerging,
right? It's like also for some context
here like Peter has an ridiculous amount
of token spent, right? I I don't know
what he like what the actual number is,
but I think he said something like $1.2
million in raw token cost a month or
something, right? just [clears throat]
like it was just insane. But there's the
world of people that have these
resources and they're they're operating
in that way and I think the closer you
are to the model apps that the more you
might see that. I don't think that
scales down to the world of you and me.
We've talked about this before where
like you and I I think we both agreed
that there has never been a time when
there's been this much asymmetry between
the halves and the have knots in
programming.
>> Yeah.
>> Was it Sil Pi a couple weeks ago who
wrote this tweet that was like I miss
when programming was free? [laughter]
>> Which is incredible because obviously
programming is still free. However, your
expectations the expectations on you
today demand that it is no longer free
in the sense that you need you must be
using agentic coding tools which costs
money. Here's a question. Do you think
since you don't really practice this
loop thing and
I don't either. I think that's
surprising to people
um when I was doing the the at AI um
engineer Miami and we had this little
panel on taste with Max Dober and um
Signal Pi
I asked them at one moment like do you
have any agents running right now? And
the answer was no. And this was a couple
months ago. So my sense is of like most
of the people I know is that they do not
have agents running 24/7. So like what
what is the gap here? Or is it just that
is it just the infinite token gap?
>> I don't know because it's not like I
didn't have the urge to have this stuff
going, but I just I don't really have a
strong sentiment that it's actually
going to do anything for me. At least
not for a stop. Like I think the
difference here is like what we are
doing in Arendelle like hypothetically
or at least not just hypothetically but
also practically should actually result
in money being generated over a long
period of time, right? is like there's
there's a desire that we're building
something that people can build on top.
[snorts] And so I have a feeling that I
just I haven't found a way yet to do
that with the looping thing. I
definitely tried to do the looping thing
when I ported mini ganger from one
language to another. Um and and that was
verifiable in the sense like that was a
that was like make all the test suites
pass, right? It's like that's a that's a
very clear goal. That's similar to the
auto research thing we talked about
before.
There it sort of seems to make sense to
me.
I I I just don't I don't wake up in the
morning feel like here I have a problem
where I feel like a Ralph loop is going
to be the solution for my problem. And
and maybe this is like a lack of like
creativity
or maybe I'm just working on different
kind of problems. But
there there must be some sort of cap.
Like I I couldn't even fathom coming up
with even like $100,000 worth of tokens
a month. Like it's just I don't even
know how I would spend it.
>> Sounds like a skill issue, Armen. Like
Jensen would be very sad. [laughter]
He'd be very disappointed in you. I
haven't talked a lot about this, but
I've made comments which is modem is
like a 100% codegen
software codebase. Okay, not 100%, but
let's say like 99%.
Um, and I call it like tastefully
curated code gen. Um, and I think it's
like 270,000 lines of code was the last
time I checked and a and a similar
number of test code despite having all
those test code. And I would say that we
have a pretty elaborate staging
production end to end test eval like
when you make a change and something
goes live there is a there is a lot of
graduated steps to ensure you know
quality um which
um I and our CTO Mike have insisted on.
Nonetheless,
I still find all these artifacts of
like, you know, someone will use a
coding agent and they'll build a feature
and, you know, no one will notice that
they've actually regressed the feature
in a subtle way,
right? Or they'll or the UI went
backwards or just took on a whole other
shape o over here or over there.
It happens all the time. It's like look
the context windows are getting bigger
but they are absolutely I don't even
think with a 10 million tok to token
context window you would avoid these
problems right um it can't ingest the
entire codebase and be totally aware
even if you guide it you know it's just
it even with the latest models this
still happens all the time and so I I
I'm unconvinced I guess is where I'm at
that at least for what we're building
and you made this comment like
depends what you're building.
For example, if you're rewriting a major
piece of open source software into
another language like Rust, you might
want some loops for that. And um do you
know what I mean?
>> Yeah. But look, the irony right now for
me is that I can sort of not pretend
like I'm not doing something that other
people are doing. So like if if bore is
sort of the point of reference
presumably most of the code they're
writing is for cloud code
>> right now most of the code I'm writing
is for pi which is a coding agent and
yet we're not doing this right and so
like we're like obviously way smaller
product way kind of different thing I
just
I I can't do it [laughter]
I just
like it's
I I just I really struggle like shipping
code that way. Um and I'm pretty sure
it's just like could pretend like I
could and just not look anymore, but
I just I don't know how to QA like it's
like or or understand or comprehend or
anything like this, right? It's like
so
someone should be doing the aentic
coding podcast of the people that are
fully like looping [laughter]
>> because to me like that what is missing
for that to work is like somehow
figuring out how I would comprehend what
I'm still doing because like I have a
desire to understand this and and my my
only assumption is that what's actually
going on elsewhere is that comprehension
has sort of shifted and it's no longer
in the picture. I I just cannot
understand how else it would work.
>> I think psychosis is a factor, too.
>> I think that sometimes when people talk
about AI psychosis, they think they, you
know, you imagine it as some kind of
fugue state where you've just completely
turned into a completely other person.
And I don't mean that. I mean that it
can subtly
warp your perspective in a couple
dimensions
and that's enough. That's enough for
psychosis to me, if that makes sense.
>> Yeah. Um, for example, if you've got the
best software product on Earth, okay,
and you managed to Ralph loop a feature
in there that gets uptake, you might
think you're a [__] genius, but it
actually had to do with the previous
distribution like like everything that
happened before you started doing
infinite Ralph loops, if that makes
sense.
>> But are you using cloth codes still in
any form?
>> I use them all. Yeah, I do. I do. Yeah.
So I I'm still paying for my Tropic
subscription since basically can't use
it anymore. I was just too lazy to turn
to be quite frank. I only ever use cloud
code at the moment to to to like see
what they're doing. I don't understand
what's going on anymore
in that product. It looks it looks the
same as it always did in a way, but it
doesn't behave the same anymore and has
like so much stuff in it. Like this is
maybe like super like inappropriate to
say but like for all the effort and
complexity and all the stuff that went
in the cloud code I don't like I don't
think I would be any more productive in
it than
with what pi is doing right now for
instance which is basically almost
nothing all all these loops and all the
features that are being shipped like
clearly are users that that want this
things right like I'm assuming that but
but it hasn't really done anything for
me so like I have plateaued in some
sense with an earlier version of that
product and and what else what the loops
are doing now is maybe features for
people that love the loops sort of like
a self [snorts] s self-fulfilling thing
but like I just I also don't really see
like I've done some trainings recently
with some companies where there's like I
wanted to see like how they're using
coding agents like none of them are
there
so it's like there's like probably like
a very small percentage of the user base
is like oh yeah you You know what I
want? I want like crazy sub agents. Like
I what do they call this now? Ultra
code.
Like all of this, right? We wanted to
get into some sections teed off by past
conversations we've had. Okay. So, let's
get into this. Let's get into this. Um,
all right. We just kind of wrapped up on
CL cloud code loops. We're going to come
back to it, but I think it's important
to acknowledge the news of what's
happened over the last month.
really, you know, that I think that's
important. So, last episode we had a
whole section where we talked about the
end of subsidies or what I called the
beginning of the end of subsidies and we
had some indicators on that and we
talked about it. There are two major
events that have happened in the last
months which sort of keep honestly
feeling like it's true that subsidies
token subsidies are are continuing to
unwind.
One is that Copilot, which was
previously a subscription
um a sub a subscriptionbased product
with some amount of spend has moved into
being usage based. And as far as people
can tell, the amount of bundled usage
has come down significantly. I don't
know if that's true or not, but based on
the reactions that we're seeing like on
social media, it seems to be
significant.
Um,
and then Claude, since we were just
talking about Claude, and I think this
is important to our conversation. Um,
you can no longer use claude-P, which
was sort of a the ability to run Claude
with like a programmatic prompt from the
CLI.
>> It's, by the way, what the original
Ralph loop used,
>> what the original Ralph loop used.
>> Yeah.
>> Um, using your sort of subsidized token,
uh, sorry, your subsidized subscription
tokens.
So what that means is that if you were
using claude say on CI like on GitHub
actions to do some work for you, you
would do like claude-P and you give it a
prompt like do a code review. Well that
no longer that no longer comes from your
subscription. Instead anthropic is
giving you some amount of credits, some
amount of
programmatic agent credits. I can't
remember the exact language commenurate
commensurate with your plan.
And I think that's interesting because
the argument before was well you can
only use your subscription with cloud
code. In this case it's it seems to get
even tighter because claude-p is cla
code.
But I think it's also important to
understand like a little bit sort of the
underlying economics of it which is that
inference actually even with the cloth
crazy plans which are really really
really really subsidized
modeled out throughout the entire user
base they are margin positive on pure
inference.
Um
as an example I I'm paying for an
account right now $200 that I basically
don't use right this is free money for
them. There are some people are probably
deep in the red but like over the entire
user base they were they were actually
fine. Um
but they don't have enough capacity to
deal with all like they want more money
because like they cannot service people.
So they want to take out functionality
which doesn't make them as much money
and rather sell it to more people where
they can make extra revenue with it
overload in the servers.
>> Yep. So, so but but it is important to
understand like actual inference is
still hugely profitable which is also
why
um even non
uh model lab providers are able to uh to
sell you something like subscriptions. I
mean open code is a good example. They
have
um a coding plan.
>> Um I think you're thinking of open code
go right which is like $10 a month.
>> So yeah, Open Code Go. Yeah. And then
then I think like fireworks as one and
like K not uh all the Chinese lives like
um you can busy buy a Kim quarter plan
that's obviously comes from from the
Kimmy people but like more than just
entropic and openi who are flush with
money are capable of providing
subscriptions.
>> I wanted to touch on this like
claude credits and the fact that now you
can use cloud code and no longer is it
true. It used to be that you could as
long as you fired up claude like the
command line tool and you did some work
that fell under your subscription.
Now it's not just cla P by the way.
Cloud-p
using the SDK that's also falls under
it. Under it the other way that it falls
under it is the um
ultra ultra mode or workflow thing.
Okay. So now using Claude, you can
basically spin up I don't know what is
it like six sub aents to do work, right?
Claude has always had sub agents.
However, it's starting to look like if
you use these sub aents to do extra work
or at least in some modes, they will
draw from these credits and not your
subscription.
So,
look, I think part of why they're
driving some of these features that
you're talking about, frankly, at least
to me, is that it actually drives token
spend. Um, I feel like if you look at a
lot of the features that are coming
under Claude, you can they are
correlated to spending more tokens.
Well, I think there's another part and
this is my conspiracy theory, but
there's a there's a big difference if
what the machine is doing is the input
from a machine versus what the machine
is doing is the input of a human. The
data that you get from a human is much
more interesting for model app than the
data that you get from the machine.
So, it incentivizes in some sense um the
human prompting
>> unlike what they want you to do, right?
is like they like do all the Ralph loops
but at the same time the Ralph loops
like they don't give you like there's
not as much data in it as like a real
genuine human problem came from the
human.
>> So your your argument also is it's not
just
it's not just about having you
be at the terminal because they don't
want you to pro you know
programmatically spin it up in a bunch
of places. The other reason is they know
how valuable that human in the loop
trace is and they want to promote that
usage because in that world that trace
has more value to them.
>> That to me at least would make a lot of
sense. Um, and I think the
um, there are not that many traces that
you can train on because like I think
you also like depending on if people
didn't opt out of it like there's
there's not that like it's probably like
a small percentage of the user base they
can even work with. Um, and then they
have to redact it and whatever. But I
I'm suspecting this at least is a very
convenient thing to to to this is to
sort of treat the the crazy loop
separate from the genuine human problem.
Well, I think it's pretty natural that
you see a lot of features come out that
conveniently spend a lot of tokens, you
know, on on their on their platform.
Like, it's not 7D chess. Look, it's it's
pretty it's pretty standard like that.
Here's a good here's a counter example
of like when was the last time Claude or
Anthropic announced a feature that's
like, look, we're going to save you
tokens if you do X.
>> Well,
when OPUS 47 was it 46 launched, I
forgot they changed the tokenizer. So
everything became magically 20% more
expensive.
>> That's just leading to the more
expensive comment, right?
>> Yeah. But when you first read the blog
post, it sounded like, oh, they opt they
optimize the tokenizer, so it's more
token efficient. But actually, no. I
think you know if you if you look at pi
or if you look at open code
they
you know
and open code maybe because I have open
code go like you have a different
relationship with tokens you probably
want to bring the tokens down you're
probably looking at ways to be more
efficient right
>> and maybe one of one of things like I
think we talked about this in an earlier
episode but like if you are a large
enough enterprise
there are no subscriptions for you right
so and it actually turns out in those
enterprises increasingly people really
care about the token cost. Uh especially
because like it's token cost per
developer and so
I mean I I don't know Uber has like
$1,500 a month token limit now. Um a
bunch of other companies also rolled out
something similar. I know that one of
the people that we're talking with from
the Pi site has a token spend limit.
Like in the beginning of the year, it
was all about
like if you don't pay $250,000 in tokens
as a $250,000
salaried employee, then you're not doing
it right. And now we're on the other
side of it already. I didn't take that
long.
>> Look, if you're OpenAI or you're
anthropic, you probably believe you're
like, look, we are 10xing the value of
an engineer in that world. you should
spend, you know, if you pay a engineer
$200,000, you should pay us $200,000.
You should pay us $500,000. That is the
argument for the utility of, you know,
what they're providing. The challenge is
there's no even if that is
mathematically true, right? What if they
make you a hundred times better? Surely,
right? Like humans are just not even
prepared for that. We're just not even
psychologically prepared for the idea of
spending that much money on tokens.
Okay?
>> We also don't see the effects, right?
It's like we're definitely shipping a
lot more code,
>> but it's not and I mean I I don't want
to like go too far into the future where
I talk about like the sort of
>> like people who ship more code, but the
the number of eyeballs is the same, but
like in in many ways that's actually
what's happening right now. It's like a
lot of the code that we're shipping
doesn't really dramatically change
anything.
>> So this is a this is a good way to move
to the next thing. So, I just want to
just make this point, which is if you're
on the marketing team or the product
teams of these companies, you are trying
to figure out how can we get people to
spend $250,000 per engineer on these
products. And part of that is making the
product better, right? And part of that
is just marketing. Part of that is
getting Jensen out there to say that,
you know, out out at a conference
somewhere. This stuff is not random.
This is not like off-the-cuff comments
that people are making. this is like a
prepared strategy of this industry. It
doesn't mean that they're all
collaborating, right? Doesn't mean that
they're all uh like there's some
sinister plot. It's just like it's a
natural consequence of what they all
would like. Wouldn't you know, wouldn't
you like people to spend that much?
>> But but there's I think there's there's
another sort of like really crazy thing
about this in in some sense, right? Like
just just think think back for like um
early Facebook days, right? All of a
sudden people talked about MAU and DAU
and all of this, right? is like there
was a like magic number that you can
measure which is like how many people
are there and people like like they they
put it on a board presentation right
it's like there's a thing to optimize
for
>> but in some sense that that number
didn't actually really like you could
change that number but even if you
change that number it didn't it didn't
automatically also change your revenue
like you could actually get more
eyeballs and not more revenue.
>> Mhm.
if then one number that they're looking
now is token spent
that directly correlates with money. Um,
and so it's like you could get token
spend up in so many ways, [laughter]
right? And and I think like it is kind
of weird like the whole industry has
sort of moved towards this this this
token thing and it's like token also
directly correlates with dollar amount.
>> Yeah. Like it's it is just it is weird
in a way like we we I don't think we
have done this before. It's almost like
that the oil company selling you petrol.
I like you know what we should burn more
petrol [clears throat] because
[laughter]
it will be good for you
>> for I I want to repeat what you just
said because I think it's actually super
insightful.
Never before in our industry have we had
a sort of metric, a usage metric that
correlates so closely to dollars. Right?
Your your argument here is like ad
impressions.
Sure, that's a metric. There's some
value on it, but how good are the ad
impressions? Do they actually buy the
product? Right? There's always some
fuzziness where you can't draw a
straight line to how much money it is.
In this case, right now, [clears throat]
there's a pretty straight line. and and
so there's, you know, increasing that
number is is more straightforward than
perhaps other things in the past. Is
that a fair summary?
>> Yeah. And and because they still call
the tokens, it's almost like it takes
away from this thing because you
wouldn't normally go like imagine data
dog would go there and say like, you
know what, you should all increase the
data bill, right? It's like that that
like that would not connect in any
capacity like if anything like that that
would be not great. But because tokens
is like you know what more tokens means
you make more money and also make I make
more money but but I feel like it's not
entirely proven that a larger token
spend actually makes you more money.
[snorts]
>> I want to make a comment here that Enron
the famous [laughter] the famous um
2001 bankruptcy. I saw the documentary
long time ago. Not the documentary
there. There's a fictionalized case the
smartest people in the room. I remember
it being a good movie. But I just want
to bring up Enron really quickly because
one of their whole ideas for their
business was that um they believed that
like software like internet connectivity
products would be um bought and sold
like oil like oil futures and they were
investing in that future and
yeah I don't know if if they existed
today that that maybe that would have
been a really good idea maybe a little
early. Um, the other thing I want to I
want to now come to the to this next our
next major topic because you made this
comment of well earlier I said like look
you're trying to get people to use
tokens. You've highlighted how they're
directly connected to income.
The industry is still grappling with the
idea of how much they should spend,
right? In some cases they're spending
like a crazy amount and
the numbers are absurd, right? And and
what I think the um the model providers
want you to say want you to believe is
like yes you spent $500 million on
tokens supposedly Uber
but you know what that was a good deal
right they're still trying to they're
still I don't know that they I don't
know that you know they feel that they
got a good deal for their $500 million
worth of tokens and I don't know if this
is an unsubstantiated story but I saw it
going around
>> the the most obvious place right now
where
companies see the need slash desire to
spend tokens is to solve security
problems and that is because someone
else otherwise runs security research
against your stuff and sort of out out
slop reports you and finding security
issues right and so there's this bizarre
situation right now is like if the AI
would never have happened
like the the overall risk to the
industry would actually be lower
[laughter]
right and so now we have the situation
because like we have the thing that is
very good at finding security problems
like at scale we're probably going to
have more secure software but now we
have like a base budget that we have to
put towards
>> security research all the time.
>> It's an incredible product because it
both
creates problems
and solves the problems you created and
you pay both times. [laughter]
>> Yeah. But it's like and and and like
people are like now because like
because of GitHub and a bunch of other
things basically having the security
programs enabled by default. There's al
there's also already like a very
convenient way to place all the security
reports. So I've seen some people pop up
recently that have not maintained open
source libraries for a while that just
literally picked up cloud code or
something similar to fix the security
issues that some other AI tool submitted
to them. You know what? You could have
been on the fence before, but now you
got no choice because it's been
weaponized against you.
[laughter]
>> Yeah, that's incredible.
>> So, I mean, like that is an example
where you can measure something because
like it's it's almost like you don't
have a choice to opt out anymore. Um, in
in other areas, I think it's it's more
more more more dubious. I mean like um
the the sort of the well-known uh graph
from the FT was like number of app
releases gone up tremendously versus the
number of like I think they had like app
reviews or like app app usage uh like
>> not even not increasing but actually
going down.
>> Yeah. So like
overall what's happening here is that is
this actually like it's very clear that
if you're in a market of selling tokens
that's a great business to be in right
now because see immediately people want
to have some tokens but I the the
evidence that all of the things that
we're doing with those tokens actually
being
like definitely measurably good way
weaker
>> right so that graph and we'll put it on
the screen I've been talking about this
I was webs. I was at WebSummit
Vancouver. I got invited to give a give
a talk last minute, the smallest stage
there, and I quickly put up a a talk
that looked into the stats of like how
much software is being created, how many
releases are being created, but like
who's actually using the software. And
before that graph came out this week, I
I was already looking at a whole bunch
of data like this. Like there there's a
lot of evidence that um we're just not
using the software to the same degree.
to bring it back to I'm saying competing
narratives because if you're in the
business of selling tokens, you don't
want people to know that,
[laughter] right? Or or okay,
[clears throat] you don't want that to
be true. You you want to demonstrate to
everybody that there is value and look
at all the incredible things that are
being produced.
So, I wanted to shift here to an example
of one such thing.
Um, a few months ago we talked about
Vibe forks or slot forks and that was
when
V next vext came out which is was a
next.js
uh fork that was vibe coded for to work
on Cloudflare environments and that was
interesting and we started hypothesizing
what would be the next fork and I said
something silly like ffmpeg I think that
you brought up some like old software.
We were just sort of like what would be
next? None of us named what would be the
next major slop fork which just came out
a few weeks ago
which is Bun. And can you tell can you
tell us what happened there?
Um so what happened is that the guy that
wrote bun Jared
uh his entire company got acquired by
entropic and seemingly he has used that
opportunity to uh grab deep into the
token back and he was already running
for like a couple of months I think
called Robun which is basically you talk
to
a GitHub issue and then a machine comes
by and just acts on and starts writing
code and merge it. Um, and he basically
instructed Robban and other tools to
rewrite the whole thing from zik to
rust. And so it's it's not released
right now, but you can already download
a pre-built of basically the entire
thing being rewritten from zig to to
rust.
>> Why convert it from zig to rust? It
seems like bun is pretty successful
software. Let's just take for example if
you didn't know this um cloud code is
written in bun it's running on millions
and millions of devices seems like it
works so what is the problem that's
being solved why we write it so uh let
me do a little detour here quickly which
is I was at
uh Ruby con Austria
which is funny because like I haven't
done anything with Ruby in years but I
was on a panel there and we were
discussing AI and um and what what is
interesting about this is that I would
make the argument that Ruby probably not
the strongest language for AI, right?
And interesting enough, there was sort
of the same vibe on the stage even
though it was a Ruby conference. There
was a general feel like hey we're all
using these things now like what what's
the benefit they get for Ruby? Then Chad
Fowler gave this example that there's um
a project you might have to Google this
where he basically like he started
prompting the AI to ask like hey if you
have this problem which language would
you use and it wouldn't he didn't even
ask like which language would you use he
basically said like write the code to
solve this problem and then he he he
basically measured how often which
language was in the top end of choices
and Ruby never came up like only he said
like only when it had to do like a DSL
Ruby would come up and so obviously Zik
also doesn't really come Yeah.
>> Can I make a quick comment? I feel that
one of the re one of the things that
attracts,
you know, some programmers to Ruby is,
you know, human taste.
>> I have some other opinions there.
>> Well, I just mean you can disagree with
it or
>> creativity. I would say creativity.
>> Yes. Like it's it is a subjective choice
fundamentally, I guess, is what I'm
trying to say. Yeah.
>> It doesn't it doesn't offer
computationally
any advantage over any other language.
Ruby. Ruby actually is in many ways the
worst language you can pick for AI.
>> Yeah,
>> Ruby makes trade-offs that are great for
humans. Like I I know that people like
writing Ruby. They don't necessarily
like reading Ruby, but they they love
writing Ruby because it's enjoyable.
It's short. You can be creative. You can
do a whole bunch of things. It can do a
ton of meta programming. The the biggest
problem with Ruby is that it has a lot
of non-local states. So you need to
basically load everything on the
codebase because magic methods could
appear anywhere on any one of your
literals and and you wouldn't know.
[snorts]
>> Yeah. To for people who haven't written
Ruby and I guess it's like it's an old
language now. Oh god. Um you know
JavaScript has some of this and I think
that's actually why I like JavaScript.
But
Ruby you can basically runtime modify
the crap out of it
>> at at levels that like JavaScript you
can do quite a bit. Ruby, you can do
quite a bit more.
>> Um, and it almost makes it so the whole
environment you could argue is unstable
at any given moment. You really can't
make guarantees about what you know a
class could have a shape and you think
it has.
>> You could you could you could say like 1
+ 2 actually does 1 minus 2. I'm pretty
sure you can still replace like
>> Yes, you can you can override you can
override arithmetic operators [laughter]
to do completely different things. So
you could make plus be a multiply
multiply operation.
>> But Zik is in a in a way quite similar
because Zik is a language is under
reprepresented similar like Ruby's
underrepresented.
Um Zik makes a lot of trade-offs that
make it really good for a human to work
with. So for instance, one of the things
I love about Zik is I use Zik, but one
of the things I love about Zik is that
like it's very great at cross compiling.
like I I I don't have to like I can
compile the the Linux build on my Mac
and it works.
But the thing that has now realized like
I no longer care about this because I
just tell CL to set up whatever crazy
contraption it needs to set up cross
compiling and it will do it too, right?
is like the the all of like a lot of the
sort of benefits that sik has are for
humans and not necessarily for machines
and because it is a very cike language
with man manual man uh memory management
it becomes very very hard to actually
guarantee that it doesn't crash and and
bun loves to crash. So um I I can see
the motivation of trying a different
language.
>> I know you're with me with this and I
think you know what I'm going to say. I
think can we take a moment to
acknowledge we are basically witnessing
the elimination of programming languages
designed and and served best. You know
that serve humans best in favor of
languages that serve machines best. Is
that fair?
>> It's probably right. That's sort of what
it looks like right now.
Like Elon had a stupid statement like
the the future of LMS is going to just
write assembly code or something similar
which is just dumb because like I still
want to review it. Now maybe the Ralph
people look at this differently and
they're like screw the reviewing. I'm
just going to continue talking to the
machine. But look, there's here's here's
a small thing sort of a small little
aside here, which is um I increasingly
notice that people are discovering what
LLM are really good at, which is reading
text.
And what I mean by that is that people
are discovering that now that LLMs are
really good at reading this text, you
could write text specifically so that
the machine is reading it, but the human
is not. And it has some really hilarious
results. like Sentry, our former
employer, for instance, had this issue
going on in the last week where someone
reported um a whole bunch of like pro
like issues against projects on GitHub
where they said like, "Hey, there's a
there's a problem with the Sentry
instrumentation. Uh please read this
thing and like do it." And like the the
issue was basically prompt injection to
replace Sentry with uh like a an an
infected version of the Sentry package
from npm, right? It's like that that
issue has been written. So the machine
is reading it, not that the human is
reading it. Um and and my point here
mostly is that I think it's important
that human reads stuff, right? Like
humans read the issue, human read the
code. So I don't think we're going to
end up in a world where there's no human
in the loop anymore.
>> Your comment being like, look, if if
agents are just producing assembly, no
one will be able to evaluate anything.
>> Like how would you how would you be able
to see anything? Like we hate assembly.
Why why would it be a good choice? Now
>> clearly there's some middle ground,
right? There's a I think we're we're
we're going to align or self- select on
a series of languages that sort of
serve, you know, decent purposes for
both. Um, I do want to pour one out
though because it does seem like
long-term Ruby and Zigg are dead. And
what I mean is that if the LLMs are not
choosing them over a long enough
timeline, they're going to become like
Louisiana French.
>> What?
>> Okay. I think the interesting part is
like that that there are massive AI
fights going on and I think SIG is very
very clearly picking one site here which
is like they're banning all AI
contributions. You can't even you're not
even allowed to use an LLM to research
an issue.
>> Damn,
>> there's no LLM anywhere in the ZIK
project. Um and I would say it's a
choice and it's it's like it's a brave
choice. I it might be one
[clears throat] that actually works for
them because it's sort of like the last
last prei project in a way. But um I
think it's going to be really hard
because
I have one project that uses zig right
now [snorts] and I'm probably going to
rewrite it in rust because it's still
very small
and I just don't have a t I don't have a
great reason right now to use it and I
worry a little bit that since this is an
AIdriven project anyways
like why cement myself into zik when I
have rust as an alternative so that and
and I I intentionally chose ZIK for this
project because I actually felt like
Russ is not a great trade-off for this
project and now I'm reconsidering.
>> We love to go on tangents and there was
a lot of good stuff we got into to bring
it back to the slop fork part of it and
to bring bring it back to bun. When that
was announced,
there was there was online commentary
that there are people that believed that
the rewrite to Rust was done for
partially for performative reasons.
Okay. And we'll never know if that's
true unless, you know, Jared gets out
here and tells us, but even then we'll
never know. This this happened before
Opus 4.8 it came out in the release
notes I believe of opus 4.8 I believe
uh we can look this up in a moment that
they highlighted the fact that opus 4.8
made had been used in the conversion
from of of uh bun from zig to rust and
what what an incredible achievement and
you can do this too. I'm bringing this
up just to just to sort of bring it back
to the like as we are debating like the
what is the value of all the tokens
right and that there is an effort by
these companies to impress upon you the
value that you can realize a very good
objective I think this is an it is
objectively true that you can use these
models to convert with some reasonable
level of accuracy a conversion from a
complicated language like zigg to
complicated language like Rust, right?
And you in your company, your software
company, you probably have projects like
that. And boy, can you use this today?
>> Finally, cobalt can die, [laughter]
>> right? Do you think that's
ignoring the conspiracy adult uh flavor
I gave there? Do you think that's a fair
argument? I have seen or I've been a
participant to more than one discussion
recently where people pointed at that
rewrite as
uh not yet as a proof but basically as a
if that project actually going to
survive that change and it's going to be
stable in three months they might use
that as leverage to rewrite within their
company legacy code bases. That's a good
test. And I I want to highlight when we
were talking about slot forks like
V-Next, that was interesting. How
popular is that? I don't know that it's
very popular. We're talking about taking
that, you know, that was an alternative
like you you use Next.js. Here's an
alternative that you can adopt. And I
don't know the numbers, but you know,
off the top of my head, I' I'd wager
that less than 10% of Nex.js users are
using VI Next. Totally made up number. I
don't know but you know I haven't heard
a lot from it since. This is a different
thing. This is taking an existing
popular open- source you know runtime
and just wholesale converting it and
then saying this will be the new version
in the future and you will all use it
right and cloud code which is being
distributed to all of these machines
millions you know millions of times a
day probably is also going to use that.
I think that's a very different and a
more compelling story. two episodes ago
or maybe one episode ago, I forgot, we
talked about um the slop fork of uh
Charted where the guy that wrote Charted
>> rewrote it
>> and and I think it's a good moment to
sort of check in on that because like
after he locked the thread where people
were in outrage and whatever, [laughter]
the project moved on and it's now fully
rewritten, 100% AI generated and it
works just fine, [laughter]
>> right? Like right now there are zero
open issues. It's a is a huge project
that underpins basically every HTTP
request against sort of regular HTTP uh
HTML in the Python ecosystem and the
world is still standing.
>> So there so there is evidence of these
rewritten libraries out there. But, you
know, again, if you're anthropic and
you're trying to convince
a massive enterprise to spend a billion
dollars in tokens, you know, do you go
and you point to Chardet and say, "Look,
look at this, right? Or do you go and
point to this critical, you know,
massive library that is powering, you
know, the thing that everybody uses,
right? In terms of like your confidence
and how you're you're promoting the
product." But it's a compelling, like
it's an objectively compelling argument.
I guess that's what I'm trying to say is
like both of those things could be true.
I Does that make sense? Like
>> I think it raises a bunch of interesting
questions because like one is that if
someone can rewrite a million lines
codebase from one language to another
and and I think that's sort of what what
we're looking at here. Then at the very
least it sort of demonstrates that at
least for a codebase that has good
enough tests
context is not necessarily an issue to
actually arrive at the at the ported
version. Now obviously porting something
like I don't know how much code you
definitely need to read into the context
like maybe you can sort of do it
peacemail by piece mail. I have no idea
how they did it. Um, but one thing that
I think increasingly is a topic with
with people sort of trying to build this
in the enterprise space is trying to
figure out like how do you architect
software to be like agent ready
and and there I think
there's definitely some ideas emerging
about what is a better architecture for
agents versus what is worse architecture
for agents but the thing is like what's
really good for agents is like local
reasoning which a lot of existing code
don't do and so the question is like
could entropy demonstrate in a couple of
months from now that hey the best way to
architect the codebase for agents is
this and this and this and by the way
our
amazing meth.0 model can actually help
you do for a lot of money that
transition once and then you can sort of
uh like then it's cheaper to iterate or
something. I actually wonder if that's
going to be um like where they want to
go with it because I don't think a lot
of people are going to like rewrite the
codebase over and over. That doesn't
really seem like maybe they rewrite it
once. Um but this idea of like getting a
codebase to be
agent friendly by making it like this
perfect pattern of like how make an
agent friendly codebase.
um that I think that that can scale like
many more people need that versus people
that need their core world code base
rewritten in C++ or something. [snorts]
Have you rewritten a major piece of
software in another language because of
the of LLMs? Tell us in the comments.
I don't know if I don't know if anybody
actually hears these, but I just want to
I want to try. Okay. So, you know,
Anthropic, OpenAI,
Google, they'd love for you to spend a
lot of tokens and pay them for it. You
know, the one thing that we have to to
blunt uh to um to stop us from becoming
um indentured servants or chatt or
whatever is that open weight open source
models exist and that um you know Peter
gets a million dollars worth of tokens a
month but you know I can get something
[laughter] for $10 a month from open
code go. What is the state of openweight
models like? Can I can I actually run
these things locally? You've been
experimenting with them more. There's
been a bunch of new interesting
releases.
>> Yeah. So, um maybe uh just generally I
think open weight mod should exist. So,
let let let that be heard.
Um I don't think they're there yet. Um
but there are some pretty good
developments I think recently that well
there's some good and some bad
developments. But let's let's put it
this way. First on the good development
side is that um we're slowly moving to
there are combination of good enough
deployed hardware being out there that
people can use.
For instance, the MacBook that you and I
bought.
>> Yep. Not not cheap. Not cheap, but
exists and you could reasonably buy them
or maybe not reasonably you is possible
for you to buy them.
>> It's possible. So, so that plus because
we're now also having some models where
with the right quantization and sort of
good utilization of that RAM, we're now
moving from completely useless for
driving two loops to can drive a two
loop and doesn't make it like completely
useless. Let's say that we're talking
about like what it can run locally in
your computer right now is sort of where
cloud code was exactly a year ago. So,
as I think I could make like it's going
to be a little bit slower, but I'm
pretty sure like whatever fun I had with
Claude in May or June last year is what
I could have with for instance Dwarf
Star 4, uh, which is like um like a
packaged up version of Deepseek that I
can run on my computer that works now.
And because that is generally possible
now, we're now slowly starting to see
that people are packaging up the whole
thing end to end in a better way. I I do
want to point out Andy Res's project
dwarfstar or DS4
uh here because like that is an example
of you don't go and like you can for
instance today you can download my
extension for pi which after you
installed it gets you the model the
inference engine the kernel the
everything that you need running on your
computer without you having to do
anything. So it's like it's almost as
convenient as going to Entropic and
signing up for for a thing here, right?
It's like you don't have to do LM Studio
MLX. You don't have to do anything. Just
run this thing. And and that's why I
think it's getting interesting now
because like people are now starting to
get the desire that maybe open weight
models should be as convenient to use as
um as entropic models.
hardware has gotten faster that has
opened up new and models have gotten
openweight open source models have
gotten sort of more effective at running
on more limited hardware um and the DX
of installing and running these models
is getting better
and let's talk about dwarf store
dwarfstar I think I think you need to
expand on that for people because my my
understanding of that is what anti-res
is doing is he's taking these models and
sort of like experimenting with
quantizing them down aggressively in
such a way to like optimize them for
coding um and doing a lot of
experimentation and testing to do that.
That's not really what's happening. But
like imagine imagine the following
what's happening up to a certain point
for you to get running a local coding
model you would basically either install
Lama or you would install MLX LM I think
MLXLM server or something uh or or or
the Lama CPP or uh like any of those. So
then you need a coding agent and you
need to manually configure your model to
have like the the right parameters. you
have to download the model from hugging
face or like that to some degree it was
sort of customized and I think that
nowadays if you go to Olama there's like
a way they configure pi for you so that
you can run your alarm server
>> I just want to make I just want to make
a comment Olama is my choice Canadian
founders that's that's all I want to say
>> so not shaming anyone is definitely
acceptable but what what what tried to
do with with DS4 initially Now it's
called dwarf star 4. Fortunately, I
always think it's death star 4 but DS4.
Um is that he wanted to see like how
good can I make the whole thing if I
just say like I want to take one model.
So he picked uh deepseek 4 flash
and then optimize the whole end to end
experience. So um not like initially he
didn't even talk through all the API.
didn't do responses and um and uh
completions and entropics model. He just
had one, but now it does actually
multiple APIs here. But the whole point
is like what if I have a model that's
optimized for agentic use that does the
uh on disk caches correctly that's
quantized so that the activation matrix
is also optimized for coding agents. Um
so basically in theory that model should
be pretty optimal according and because
it basically polished the experience end
to end he actually achieves right now
for a model that's 96 kilobytes
um what to me is actually superior
performance to smaller models on my
computer within the context of a coding
agent. Um so it's it's pretty damn fast.
It's so the prefill which is basically
like if you read a file and and sort of
load it into the context is I think
around 450 tokens per second if not more
and the tokens that it generates around
25 26 tokens a second and it keeps that
performance more or less until um I
would say like 80% of the context.
There's a slight drop off but you can
fill a lot of the context um without
losing performance. And that's the first
time I had that experience of actually
feeling really convinced that I can use
a local model at all for anything
serious
>> for coding.
>> And I think that's good for coding
>> because I I think I think you've made
this comment. I've experienced this, but
like whisper models.
>> I also I also used like LLMs for like
text editing and a whole bunch of
things, but like for multi-turn code
generation,
>> stuff like this, um it wasn't there. And
the other thing I want to point out is
like if you have a model that is 96 GB
memory thing something like this it's
basically the two bit quantized model
there's actually enough parameters in
there that it actually has a lot of
knowledge which makes it an excellent
teacher too. So if you maybe for
programming it's not perfect yet but
like you can talk to it you can talk to
your problems you can they can do a
whole bunch of stuff and you really have
the feeling like that model has a lot of
knowledge which is totally not the case
for really small like 20 gigabyte um
like quen coder first of all super
educational thank you I had I said some
of those words quantise quantise my
experience has been similar where I have
tried to run models on my um framework
work desktop and also on my new Mac M5
Max. I'm sorry. I'm so feel guilty. Um,
one of the B bourgeois here. Um, I tried
like Gemma GMA 4. I tried, you know,
Quen or I tried like some of the low
memory variants of this to try to work
with them. And while I think I could
like they worked one, they just like
satured [laughter]
out all my resources. I just I just
couldn't see a world where I would
really use these. Maybe maybe on an
overnight job on the framework desktop.
Um I also made a mistake where I have
the 14-in smaller MacBook of the M5 and
I think this thing does not have the
heat dissipation of the larger machine
which is unfortunate. So basically it it
gets hot.
So, fun thing. Um, I uh I I I re
quantized
um the Deep Seek 4 flash model on my uh
M5 Max 13 inch or 14 inch, I forgot. And
um I ran out of power. [laughter]
So, the power 60 what like 80 watts, I
don't know what the power socket is. 80
watts plus the battery was not enough.
So, my battery drained from like 100%
fully plugged in to 2%.
>> One of the takeaways here is if you are
if you think you want to run a local
model, uh, you might want the 16 in.
One, I guess I agree with your statement
of like these are exciting. I'm I'd like
to know where they're going, but like
realistically, was I ever going to use
these? No, just for playing. The second
thing is yesterday
um randomly I decided to live stream
just as an experiment and I could talk
more about that. For the live stream I
just wanted to use other people's
products. A bunch of people had asked
like hey you know I made a I talked
about how people ask me to use their
products all the time and I'm like gh I
don't have time for that. But then but
the problem is I asked people to do the
same for my products. So, I thought I
would just take like a couple hours and
I would actually just try everybody's
software that they sent to me and I did
that for about an hour and
I I had used DeepSeek V4 Flash on Open
Code as part of that like I was
experimenting with stuff and I decided
to actually just kind of keep rolling
with my little software uh my little
piece of software I was making which was
a text adventure game um on Open Tuy
and so I was using Deep Seek V4 Flash um
but not the not Dwarf Star 4, not the
quantized version, just the original.
And I was working with it, it would, you
know, [snorts] aggressively refactor
things in the ways that I didn't want it
to and I had to go back. Like, you
really had to supervise it. And I made I
made actually the comment you just did,
which was, man, this reminds me like
this is powerful, but you really got to
look after it. And it reminds me of what
models were like a year ago. I said that
on the stream. And so it's actually fun
that you just actually kind of came up.
Is that fair? Like
>> I did a register.
>> No, that's okay. Almost nobody does. I
did it for the fun. Um we started off
the show to be like what what was going
on a year ago. And I think it's nice
just in a random kind of like gut check
headspace moment like that's where we
think this Deep Seek V4 Flash is.
>> And and maybe like for the audience um
Flash is a small one. They also have the
pro model which is which is way better
but I definitely can't run this on my
machine.
>> Um I mean it sort of can there are
always there's streaming support now in
these four but like um it's it's not
it's not the same thing. So like in
terms of size difference it's pretty
significant.
>> And if [snorts] you go through like an
actual vendor you know a model provider
it's crazy fast.
>> Yeah.
>> Uh uh as opposed to local. I I think
like one thing that sort of uh is is
worth reflecting on is if you're in the
in the space of not just using coding
agents to build but you're also in the
space of building an agent yourself,
you probably have discovered
that um
you want choice and you want competition
and you want the ability to buy models
from other people and you just generally
want there to be more openweight models.
And up until very recently, your choice
of openweight models was 100% Chinese
other than a very old llama model. And
that is slowly changing. Um um not only
are there companies in at least the US
that are training open weight models now
um Nvidia released one and even
Microsoft released one. Microsoft I
think even called it like ethically
trained or something which I found
interesting.
>> [snorts]
>> Um, now are they going to be like the
great models that we all want to use?
Probably not. Um, but I I really like
the fact that we see some some move
towards open weight models. Um, at least
partially.
>> Also, shout out to Coher.
Cohhere being a, you know, AI research
lab that also puts out models, but they
just put out uh, Command A+, which I
think is Apache 2.0, No, and that just
came out a couple weeks ago and it's 218
billion total, 25 billion active
parameters. Like I looked at that and I
was like, I don't know that I can run
that. Um,
but it exists. Like they literally put
on as the hardware minimum, you need one
B200 or, you know, two H100s. I don't
got those.
Um
but I guess that's also interesting in
the sense of like there are more
companies pretty producing open source
models. Uh Gemma 4 is open source. Is it
open source or open weight?
>> It's definitely open weight. I don't
know what the license on it is. What the
licenses anyways these days?
>> I
it's just mere suggestions.
>> But they hadn't done that before, right?
like did they have openweight models
before?
>> I don't think so.
>> Right. So, I guess taking a moment to
say more companies are getting into the
game of of producing these these
openweight models
>> and there's also in in investor interest
in making sure that there are some
because like all of the portfolio
companies also need open weight models
for a little while until they get huge
and then they lock it down. But yeah, I
mean like there's this interesting
moment in time I think where um
not every company can
fully depend on entropic and openi
playing nice because entropic has a
tendency of kicking you out if you're
playing in the same spaces. They have a
end to end integrated app in there.
Okay, we started this show acknowledging
that for at least for Armen and I, it's
been about a year of,
you know, agentic coding loops with
Claude and then pi or just this whole
way that we work to today um for us kind
of started June 2025.
We we thought we'd jokingly make
year-long predictions like what where
will we be sitting?
Uh how will we look back at this at a
year? Any any thoughts on that to kick
us off?
>> Yeah, so um we already talked a little
bit about like what it looked like last
year and what has changed, what hasn't
changed. Um my suspicion is that pretty
much every single company next year is
going to pay for tokens in one form or
another at the very least for security
reasons. So I think like that that thing
will has established itself as an
absolute necessity.
>> Are you trying to say anthrop anthropic
will be a 100 trillion dollar company?
Is that what you're trying to say?
>> Well, I think that's sort of the
question. I think somewhere in like is
are we next year already like postbubble
or the peak of the bubble like this is
basically saying like everything is like
1999 but you don't know if it's 97 98 or
99 somewhere here in the next 24 months
I'm pretty sure the whole thing is going
to um go through some painful
readjustment but I I I don't want to say
it's definitely going to be next year.
>> So [snorts] you're just saying like a
year from now look everybody's
everybody's in on this. There's no more
there's no more like
uh Zigg holdouts. Is that what I
>> mean? There might be Zig holdouts, but I
think like you will not be able to run a
software company and not pay a ton of
money to get security audits and
security reviews and all of this going
because someone else will do like there
will be a there will be a racket of um
of of people like making your life
painful if you don't get ahead of it. Or
we could just have completely different
primitives that make those things not
matter.
>> Well, I mean and and sort of the
question I think the other question like
do I think that next year we were we're
actually all Ralph looping around and
like using multi- aent shenanigans and I
just don't think that's going to be the
case yet. I think the dark factory is
also not going to be here next year. I
think we're kind of plateauing on the
models a little bit. I don't think we
have this self enforcement and
>> where we have to press pause. I I had
this in our notes like will it feel
substantively different in a year and
I'm and let me precursor that to say
over the last few months like is GPT 5.5
really good? Sure. Did I feel like it
was such a tremendous
jump from 5.4?
I don't know. They both seem pretty good
to me. Like maybe maybe on a benchmark
and and people are like, "Oh, it's
good." But, you know, it was I just used
the top thing and the top thing like I
was getting results under 5.4 and I'm
getting results with 5.5. Does that make
sense? Um, and David Kramer, our friend
at Sentry, made this comment like he
thinks Opus 4.6 is better than Opus 4.8.
Like, we're getting to the point now
where people can't even tell, right?
Well, we we're also getting to the point
and I think it's really important. We're
getting to the point of not just
diminishing returns, but we're getting
to the point of look I'm not saying like
diminishing returns instead of like
the models are sort of like as curving
out. I don't think it's that's happening
but I think like we're the way we're
training these models like the way the
models got really good like that that
sort of trend does not fully continue
and in some cases the models are getting
worse now because the reinforcement
learning is like very very targeted like
there there's certain use cases where
like the latest Opus models perform
worse than older OPUS models um if you
move off the the welltrodded path um so
there's right now at least we're sort of
on on um certain things get better
because this is where the training goes.
But like if you're doing something that
previously still worked because the
reinforcement learning wasn't quite so
reinforcing. Um like the older models
might actually do better. Um so there
definitely some some some evals that you
can run yourself where older models are
actually better. If the way that you're
building software is just running loops
to convert software from one language to
another, you might be surprised that
future models get really good at that,
but they suck at other things.
>> Uh, I mean, Ben, will we see many
companies next year rewriting their
legacy? Um, like for instance, this is
like when you go to the the gate on an
airport, you're going to see like a like
a whatever like a service worker
punching in um on a keyboard that
seemingly is connected to a Citrix
remote desktop thing with a Unix looking
terminal user interface from the 70s.
Are they going to rewrite that with uh
the next generation of models into
something modern or are those companies
are like, "No, this is actually fine.
>> It's got like an interface or whatever
and it's solid. Why would I touch that?"
You know,
>> um because now [clears throat] they're
finding all the security issues.
>> By the way, I want to make a I want to
share an anecdote right now about a way
that LLMs failed that I think is very
interesting. Okay.
that might speak to the future.
Um, we had a problem at modem recently.
Uh, so we use a mix I call it the
forbidden stack versel and cloudflare
together in a way that no one in in
which in where nobody's happy. Um, and
we use workers and workers have we use
workers for like some pipeline stuff and
agent coordination agent coordination
between
um sessions on the web, sessions on
Slack. I'm not going to go too much into
that. Maybe another blog post or
something. But the thing with workers,
Cloudflare workers specifically that we
have talked about on other on another
episode is that they have a a memory
limit of like 128 megs. And if you load
too much JavaScript code into a work
curve, they usually they usually kind of
like blow up this way. um like you load
20 20 megabytes worth of JavaScript code
once that executes and just kind of
fills up you know
that can balloon up to like a 100 megs
once the code actually starts running
and then the worker can go out of memory
and fail. Okay,
this was happening to us for a
non-trivial percentage of workers in
production a week or two ago, two weeks
ago, let's say. And it was very
problematic to the degree that three of
us, three of us in this company tried to
solve this problem with agents. All
right. Okay. Three of us using different
models, harnesses, whatever. I was
probably using GPT55, but I also tried
Opus on this. Like I tried multiple
models. How do we solve this memory
problem? Okay. And at one point, Opus
had like
Now, I think I'm clever and I've done
this before. I've solved memory leaks
with agents and I do recommend this is
if you want the agent to solve the
memory leak, you actually create an
environment where it can monitor the the
memory, right? Like actually inspect the
memory because if you don't do that,
they'll actually just go and make
hypotheses for example um even on 48.
Okay, did that and it came up with an it
came up with a with a contrived example
of like well look you're cloning this
JavaScript object over here that's
duplicating the amount of memory for
every every object and look I've
demonstrated a test case where I pump
10,000 records in here and the memory
balloons and we could solve this all
right a lot of solutions like that which
are sort of like technically correct
right like that is true it found
something that is true
none of these things solved the
nothing. Okay.
And then like 24 hours later of us and
like look we like I I took that I was
like well I look I guess it demonstrates
that it saves memory and I put it on
production did jack did nothing right
did not solve the problem. Okay. This is
a real problem with LLMs. And by the
way, this is what I talk about when I
mean psychosis. And I've I've talked
about this like
>> you believe [laughter]
>> Yeah. LLMs will you'll be like, "Hey,
can you investigate this?" And they'll
they'll give you like 10 10 possible
problems to explore and you're like,
"Oh, well, let's go check those out."
But the reality is the answer is often
like 11 and 12 that it never brought up.
I just didn't even know to find it. And
in this case, the actual example, okay,
the actual solution which um Mike, our
CTO, found was he was like, "Wait a
minute, didn't we have this happen
before? What did we do before?" And he
discovered that it was actually just
that we had imported a new package.
Okay. And that package had brought in a
whole bunch of extra code which put the
like, you know, distribution once it
once it once that code just loaded up on
the worker, that was the problem. That
was it.
No amount of vibing with the LLM brought
us here. And what pains me is this is
like such an obvious answer and it was
an answer that we'd all discovered in
the past.
Okay? And we didn't think about it. We
didn't use our brains, right?
[clears throat]
And this is with absolutely like we
probably spent hundreds of dollars of
tokens between us. [laughter]
If you would have spent tens of
thousands of tokens, they would have
worked.
>> Yeah.
A year from now, do you think that stuff
like that will stop happening?
>> I don't see it.
>> Louder for the whole audience.
>> Look, look, we the world might be
fundamentally looking different next
year for like reasons unrelated to AI.
But
it took us a year to get from
basically what the experience was that
we remember from like Sonet 4 or 37 or
something to like whatever we having
right now. And that was a tremendous
change, right? But it's like it didn't
really change any of the fundamental
things. We're just trying to do
everything really quick now with way
worse code.
We're doing it faster and the code is
worse. But we but but everything else is
sort of the same. Like solving the
problems is the same. Like like yes,
it's easier to vibe up infrastructure,
but it's still
infrastructure is still hard. Like
memory is still the same. It's like it's
just like it costs more to buy memory
now. But like like the hard things
haven't really tremendously changed and
there's not a good reason why it would
change. the number of people buying our
software is still going to be the same.
It's going to be the same in a year from
now, too. Maybe they're going to have
less money because of inflation,
whatever. But like it's still like I
just don't really see why we would all
be Ralph looping.
Like it doesn't
like I really want to watch this episode
a year from now and say like I was so
wrong on this and we are in fact all
Ralph looping like crazy. But
>> right now I have a hard time imagining
it. The point is the Ralph loop wouldn't
have fixed this.
You could argue we were running a Ralph
loop because there was three of us,
right, over 24 hours just poking, you
know, like not not an actual autonomous
Ralph loop, but look, there was three
humans in the loop driving agents,
right? Like a lot of parallelism didn't
get the answer. And here's my argument
for what might get worse. Why did it not
find that answer? Well, because here's
my theory.
It's it was a Cloudflare worker oddity.
And you know what? There's no more Stack
Overflow. There's no more people writing
blog posts. There's no one writing, gee,
I hit this painful problem with
Cloudflare workers and here's how I
solved it. So, how does the agent index
this? The reason it kept promoting all
these other answers is because it was
taking this corpus of knowledge that it
had and trying to apply it to um you
know a a runtime environment that it
didn't understand. That's like how I
look at it.
>> But but it's also it's also worse
because like imagine like I I see the
issues now they're being filed
everywhere on GitHub. It's like even if
they're there and even a human share
something like that human might be an AI
and it might even not be right because
it's already regurgitated trash.
>> I think dead internet theory is real and
I think that it's actually going to sort
of like I actually think it will
negatively impact our progress on
things. I mean it should like I I want
to know how the the model apps are going
to improve their training data selection
to get rid of all this [__] because I
can tell you handle labeling now is
really hard on the PI issue tracker as
an example because it takes me too long
to figure out what's a good agent
generated issue versus was a trash agent
generated issue and news flash 90% of
issues are agent generated.
If I were as wealthy as anthropic, what
I would be right now is actually hiring
companies to write software without AI.
[laughter]
It's the only way. Like look, just hire
a thousand engineers, write code, solve
problems, write blog post. Dear God,
please write, you know, write solutions
cuz where's the incentive? Oh my I find
I can imagine all this like uh [snorts]
morally really questionable ideas
[laughter]
just fence off some humans somewhere and
deprive them of AI.
But we we already know we we already
know that that this is partially
happening because like all these
companies started to buy data sets like
crazy
>> and like and this whole thing like with
with the the wall of tokens at at Meta
in part was just they needed more test
data and they're like recording every
human now with all the interactions
they're doing. There's a there's a
startup in might be the US
that basically cleans your house for
free, but the worker that cleans your
house is being video recording the whole
time
>> and then they're going to sell this to a
ro company. Like it's all insane.
Honestly, it's all insane. This is why
like maybe in the next maybe maybe the
crash is going to come in the next 12
months. I don't know. But [laughter]
>> yeah, I guess I'm taking a moment to say
that part of the reason why they're so
good is that we had all this incredible
corpus of knowledge and the the work the
job was to smash all of that right into
an LLM increasingly with increasing
effectiveness.
Um, and they do have recency, right? You
know, when is the training date? But I
do I wonder if when it's garbage in and
garbage out, how do you how do you know?
Um I have um a project called slop scan
which [laughter]
um [snorts] tries to identify like slop
typescript coding patterns. And the way
that that the origin of it is that I pin
a bunch of notable open source projects
from a variety of different um like
solving different problems like a web
app or a library and I pin them. I call
it the epoch date
like of the before times. I put January
1st, 2025. So as like so I don't just
take out these notable open source
projects today. I take I took them and
pin them to their checkouts from the
before AI era and then compare them to
like known slot repositories and then I
I extract the patterns. Um,
and what I'm trying to say is that value
is strictly in the past. You see what
I'm saying? Um, and if we're not
producing those things, if we're not
producing like who is producing that,
then how are we going to get how are
these going to keep getting better? Um,
right.
Yeah. You know what the problem is? I
think
we
know that we shouldn't have slop,
but we have So, we we had this tweet
earlier that we discussed with like
Peter and Boris talking about like we
all should be looping.
There was this discussion hanging on and
I actually found it again, but like
there was this discussion hanging on
like someone quote tweeted this whole
thing and they said like moving from
writing prompts to writing loops is
something I'm still trying to wrap my
head around. So far, okay, it's just
like an engagement tweet, right? The
first reply was what does it even mean
to write a loop? What does it look like?
And the next reply was ask whatever
aentic coding agent you teach to or ask
rock to summarize what boys and be have
been tweeting about with respect to
moving from prompting to looping.
[laughter]
So like this this like it's not even
human discussion anymore. It's like well
I don't want to explain this to you. Ask
your machine.
[clears throat and laughter]
>> I this is like this whole thing. It
produces so much useless junk on the
internet.
>> It's all going to go back to training.
>> All right. final topic because this is
relevant. I now know how we can bring
this in.
We talked earlier about how we're making
a lot of software but no one's using it.
Um, and you we had in our notes, Armen
wrote this down like why is it that
every app that people seem to be
producing right now are like is like a
three column personal agent harness
multiplexer with like a tree view on the
left and an agent in the middle and you
know diffs or something on the right.
I've seen so many of those. Are we
making anything good? It seems to me
that like why why do you see so much of
that? The reason is they're built on
some really powerful primitives
uh diffs.com and hunk uses diffs
um from pure computer company and they
also released trees which is kind of
like diffs. It's like a tree view,
right? And then you've got uh lib ghosty
um which is powering like a terminal
view. Where I'm going with this is the
products that you're seeing don't feel
like they're a product of agentic
coding. They actually just feel like
they're a product of these really
fantastic libraries, right?
What you see what I'm saying? Like even
armed with AI coding, what is it that
people can make? Well, they can look at
some libraries that already exist. Most
of which, by the way, were actually
written by hand.
not not lib ghosty but I you know I
think there's an asterisk on that
because it was built off um certainly a
lot of ghosty was written before AI
right
um and I know that diffs I use diffs
before AI um like as a product the
product surface area existed before AI
you see where I'm going with this like I
know that there are some products that
are sort of like very agent agent agent
attached where people are literally
saying make it look more like the other
Mhm.
>> Like monitor this repository because
we're in the same space. If they launch
an interesting feature, make a purity
document and then we're going to like
explore it.
>> Dax's keynote at AI Miami. I don't know
if you watched it, but it was like you
don't have any good ideas. And he
basically makes this argument which is
like you know you believed that you had
all this incredible brilliant you know
ideas for making software and businesses
and if only you could code faster then
it would happen. And look, now you can.
And yet, you know, where where did that
bring you? Back to me. You got nothing.
And
we should be seeing more software. But
if everybody's, you know, why isn't why
aren't people adopting all the software
we're making? Well, look, we don't need
400 three column
agentic coding multiplexers. We don't
need that. the primitives are the bigger
unlock to what's possible than the AI
coding frankly. That that's like my big
takeaway.
>> Yeah. I mean like infrastructure was
always a good thing to be in because
like you're you're [snorts] more or less
selling the shovel, right?
[sighs] It's just like the the has
become really hard to monetize. Like can
Pierre make money off diffs?
Can Mitchell make money off Ghosty?
>> They don't. No, they're making money off
of other things, but um
>> who is making money at the end of the
day? The token factories.
>> The the token fac. Yeah, they're making
the most money. ignoring the business of
it. I guess it's like [clears throat] I
actually think this this is and can
continue to be an incredible moment for
open source. I think people should be
building more primitives, frankly. Um
and maybe there will be creative ways of
using that like
>> uh well actually I I don't want people
to build more primitives. I think I want
bu people to build stronger primitives.
>> Yeah. Yeah, people
>> like I don't need
20,000 competing sandboxing solutions,
right? But that's what's happening right
now. It's like people are more like I
guess I think we discussed this already
before, but like talking to humans is
hard. Talking to machine is easy. So
people are less likely to go into engage
in a healthy discourse on an issue
tracker to get a project into the right
direction. They're just like, "Oh, [__]
it. I don't want to deal with this
human. I'm just going to have my clanker
do it and build it for myself. And that
just seems like the wrong solution to
this problem. But that's so common now.
It's like instead of like, oh, this this
person doesn't merge my porters fast
enough. This person doesn't really want
to do what I want to do, so I'm just
going to build my own. Like, you
wouldn't have done this before. It would
have been ridiculous to build a one-man
library instead of using someone else's
well-maintained one.
>> Look, hunk is an interesting experiment.
Um, there's a lot of people who've made
diff tools. Look, you know, I'm I like
other people saw diffs.com and I was
curious to see if I could apply that
like would it actually render on the
terminal and surprise I think I must
have been one of the first because the
answer was yes and it was very
performant. Um,
but I want to make a comment which is
people didn't work use it a lot on week
one or week two or week three or week
four. It was like on week eight of like
300 commits in constant iteration.
People had submitted a bunch of like
there had been poll requests, there had
been merges. At that point, people
started using it a lot. Um, this is a
little just a little bit of a segue here
which is
this like fast fashion
like fast fashion of software is what
we're experiencing right now where
people are building something and
they're like, "Hey, look at this." And
if they don't like if people don't use
it, they throw it away and go and try to
find some other flash in the pan thing.
Folks, my advice to you is, uh, have
some conviction and work on things a
little bit longer. That's one thing. But
also, um, yeah, you should use
libraries. I used a lot of libraries.
Um, I actually have to ask the LMS to
use libraries quite a bit.
Have you noticed that?
>> I mean, they're they're definitely I
mean, I like when people are like using
fewer dependencies, but I seem like
they're extensively pushed towards not
using something at this point.
>> Picking your spots, you know? Yeah.
Yeah. Extens. Yeah. That they are
extensively driven. Hey, you want to
hear an idea of why they do that? Do you
want to Why do you think they do that?
>> Because they use my tokens.
>> Oh [__] [laughter]
How does Why does it always come back to
that?
I mean, the problem is like even if you
don't want to be driven by that
incentive in the company of like the
token seller, it's going to be really
hard not to be driven by that.
>> This was our year-long predictions that
we just kind of turned into a talk about
some some stuff. Um
I hope in a year that there are really
cool projects like diffs and trees and
lib ghosty and and um the the canvas one
traw I think is another big one. Like
just think like what those have been
huge unlocks to a whole bunch of ideas.
Um, I have no idea what the next one
will be, but I'm I'm excited that people
will make some of them. The fact that
we've only got like I can only name
like,
you know, five off the top of my head.
If I really thought about it, there's
probably like another five more I could
think of like in the last year. Um, with
all the languages that we talk about
with, you know, the value that these LMS
provide, there should be a lot more. So,
will there be a lot more?
I'm going to say no. [laughter]
And that's because I don't believe I
don't believe in the Ralph loop agentic
loop. I think that if you look at those
all of those libraries, they were driven
by people with taste with people in the
loop. And I've seen no evidence of
anybody building some like really great
library like that with with just a b
with a LM in the loop. It's a lot. I've
I've I use a lot of tools. Maybe this is
like um something I'll do a video on.
Like I built a bunch of tools to help me
manage hunk. Um, I've started to use
modem to manage hunk because I realized
that we are building a product manager
and we should probably I should probably
have it help me and it has been doing
that. Um,
my project isn't even super popular. I I
don't I could not keep up without agents
just for the maintenance frankly. Um, so
I don't know. Yeah, I 80% sure.
>> Do you think that do you think the Linux
kernel is going to be predominantly LLM
maintained? I feel like people should
know this about me. I'm more of a user
of software. Armen is a like
>> but I'm I'm not a like I I don't hang
out in a Linux kernel man maintainer
mailing list to figure out what's going
on this project. Like I I really don't
know. I don't know what percentage of
Linux code today would be maintained
this way. I think there would be
probably a lot of discussions still
about the legal lease of like
>> excessive like LLM in like a core
infrastructure component. I really don't
know but like I I I I'm pretty sure that
a year from now
>> there will be a lot of AI generated code
in the kernel because it will be very
hard to keep it away. What the
percentages I don't know. Do you believe
OpenAI or Enthropic or any model
provider any in a year or further will
change their licensing agreement to say
that code created by their LLMs is
actually their copyright and they're
giving you a license to use its
already indicated that a machine can't
generate. But like I think I think the
question is like do we going to see some
competition from these? Because I'm
pretty sure like
if it hasn't happened in a year from now
yet, people should be upset about having
so much economic power being just
resting with two maybe three large
massive corporations. But that's just my
optimism talking. What's wild about
that, I have to highlight this for
people, is okay, obviously all these
corporations are in the US, but if you
look at it on just like a nation state
scale, there's actually only a handful
of countries that even have possess
anybody making models, right? And as far
as I know that that's obviously the US
and China and then after that it thins
out quite a lot um to like the UK with
Deep Mind, I think, which is technically
part of Google. So, and then Mistl,
is it Mistl? Is that what I'm thinking
of?
>> Mistrol, I guess,
>> in France and Coher in Canada. And then
like is there anybody else?
>> It's very small. Like even even if a
country that gets away with actually
having a lab like France with Mistral,
it's small. But that's what I'm trying
to say is we we think about
concentration of of this power in the
companies but actually if you step out
it's incredibly concentrated within one
country and then
even after that a set of countries and
then nothing.
>> Yeah.
Well, I don't know if we made any
tremendous year-long predictions, but
there's always going to be innovation
that comes out of left field that you
don't expect that changes the game. And
it's hard to predict what that's going
to be. I don't know what it's going to
be, right? Um, Google came out and was
like, hey, you know, turns out we can
use a hell of a lot more a lot less
memory, right? That could have profound
effects in the future. There could be a
lot of stuff like that. I think there
will be I'll make one prediction that I
think one tremendous discovery will
happen in the in a year.
I have no idea what it is.
>> Right.
>> There will be hopefully one. [laughter]
All right.
>> Well, thanks everybody. Um I hope this
didn't suck. Till next time.
>> Bye-bye.